In this video we're going to start to work on a very small no J.S. Project.
After that we're going to figure out how to test it without any outside testing library.
So this first approach right here is going to be really simple and straightforward just to kind of get
us into the mindset of what testing is kind of like and what we try to focus on okay.
So to get started I'm going to go back over to my terminal.
I got to find my workspace directory of sorts so this can be anywhere on your computer inside this folder.
I'm gonna make a new project directory called High dash.
I'll then change into there and start up my code.
Ed so what is this project that we're building.
Well the project name is high dash.
This is kind of a little pun of sorts in the world of JavaScript.
There is an extremely popular library called load ash.
So this is the documentation page for load ash right here.
The load Ash library provides a huge set of helper functions to do a lot of different operations that
we currently have to do by hand inside of javascript.
So if you take a look at the documentation at load Ash dot com you're going to see just a ton of different
helper functions.
That's all this library really does.
So inside of here you'll find functions like is integer we call is integer we pass in some value and
then this function just returns True or false to tell us if that thing is an integer that's just one
example.
There are many other functions inside of here.
You'll notice that all these different functions are called by referencing underscore dot and then the
function name just you know a single underscore like that.
That is not a special character in the javascript language.
The underscore is a completely valid identifier is a completely valid variable name.
So the underscore is just like any other variable that could have just as easily bend like the word
load ash or something like that so we're going to re implement one or two functions from the load Ash
library and then figure out how to test them.
We're going to be implementing two pretty basic functions.
The first one that we're going to re implement from scratch is for each.
So the documentation right here for each it's under the collection section if you want to take a look
at it yourself.
The for each function behaves identically to the for each function that we've been using throughout
this course that is included with JavaScript arrays.
So it turns out that for many years javascript did not have that array helper method of for each.
So for literally like two two and a half decades javascript did not have a built in for each method.
So the low dash library came along many many years ago and they gave us a version of four each which
was just fantastic we could use for each to iterate over all the elements of an array and we used to
do this all the darn time before the for each function it was built into JavaScript or each is still
included inside of load ash because hey people still sometimes use this thing.
There are some other reasons to use the built in or the version of for each.
This includes with load ash but usually these days we use the version that is built into all JavaScript
arrays like I said we're going to implement this function take a look at the function signature.
So when we call for each using load ash and this our implementations can be very similar.
The first argument is going to be the array that we want to iterate over and then the second argument
will be a function that we pass in we can take a look at example right here and we'll see a better example
of it.
So in this case they're iterating over an array with the values 1 and 2.
The second argument is then a function that function will be called with every element out of that array.
In turn so that's what we're going to be making for Step 1 Get started.
I can go back over to my editor.
I'm going to create a new index Scott J.S. file and then inside of here I'll do a module that exports
of an object inside this object.
We're going to write out a couple of different functions really just two or three.
We'll begin first with the for each function
so we're going to make sure that our for each function that we are building is going to have a identical
signature to the one that load ash has over here.
So our first argument needs to be an array.
And the second argument will be the function that'll be executed for every element in that array so
I'm going to receive the first argument as simply array or a R and then my second argument will call
about simply f n short for function.
So we want to iterate over every element inside of array and call f n with it naturally.
We could implement this by just using the built in for each function that's included with JavaScript.
But just for a little fun let's try to write this out from scratch using just really basic javascript
stuff so to implement for each from scratch we can write a very simple for loop so we can say for let
I equals to zero ie less than a r length and I plus plus then inside of here.
For every element or every index we will reach into our array and pull out a value at that appropriate
index.
And then finally we will call our function with that value.
So I'll say it again and pass in value technically usually we also pass the index of this value as the
second argument to the function.
So we'll pass and I's the second argument as well.
Like so okay.
So that's pretty much it.
That is a implementation of for each from scratch.
So now here's the big question how do we know if this code works.
I mean I can read it and it looks like it works but how do we actually make sure it works.
So if we were using similar conventions to what we were doing earlier on say this course we might do
something like this.
You might come down to the very bottom and tried to write out something like Okay let's call for each
let's throw in some array.
So like one two three but in our function as the second argument
receive each value and then do a console log of the value.
So this is some code that we might write if we were kind of following everything we've done in this
course already.
We would then go over to our terminal and run this file node and we would visually inspect the console
to make sure that we saw the values 1 2 and 3 console logged out.
So that would be a absolute perfect definition of manual testing.
We were running some code and then we were using our own two eyes to make sure that we got the expected
results.
So that is an approach that we want to do away with.
When we start to think about automated testing so instead of trying to run our code and then manually
look at the output we want to figure out some way to run this stuff in an automated fashion and maybe
run it in several different styles and make sure that in every different case that we call out for each
function it should work in some very well expected undefined way.
All right.
So let's take a pause right here.
We're going to come back in the next video and we're going to figure out how we can write out some code
to test this function in a very automated style and we're going to do it entirely without making use
of any outside testing library.
So a quick pause and we'll tackle that in just a moment.